# Generative modelling for data augmentation
MSc Thesis on "Generative modelling for data augmentation of in-vitro serous fluid ultrasound images to accelerate the validation of a non-invasive white blood cells counting medical device" in collaboration with Newborn Solutions.

Newborn Solutions is a medical device startup located in Barcelona that will enable non-invasive screening, diagnosis and monitoring of infections in serous body fluids, with an initial focus on infant meningitis. The company has developed an ultrasound-based device, coupling materials and artificial intelligence algorithms, to capture ultrasound images from the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) directly below the infant fontanelle and make an image-based count of white blood cells (WBC) present in the fluid (a well-established diagnostic marker for meningitis infections), enabling an image-based prediction of meningitis infections. The technology is also being currently validated in patients with home-based peritoneal dialysis, who have an infection rate of 40% during treatment. In this context, images are non-invasively acquired from the dialysis bag. In case of an elevated white blood cell count, the device will alert of the infection to the patient and the corresponding physician so that antibiotic treatment can be administered as soon as possible.

The images used to train their predictive models for the meningitis application come from several hospitals in Spain and the African countries of Mozambique and Morocco (in-vivo images). However, these sources are not providing enough diverse data and they have recently started creating new sample images in their laboratory (in-vitro images). While valuable, physical modelling is tedious, time-consuming and challenging. For that reason, their next move is to further extend data augmentation through digitalizing the image generation process.

The Master Thesis project aims to develop a conditional generative model for data augmentation of in-vitro serous fluid ultrasound images to accelerate the validation of the non-invasive white blood cells counting medical device of Newborn Solutions. At first the generative model will be trained and validated on in-vitro images and as a next step on clinical peritoneal dialysis data, which has the highest resemblance to the currently recorded in-vitro images.
